			UNSW Prolog (version 4.2)

The Prolog tape is 1600 bpi and can be loaded by

	tar tvb 20


The top level directory contains:

	READ_ME - this file
	help - directory containing help files used by help system
	lib - a library of sample Prolog programs
	manual - directory containing the UNSW Prolog manual (troff)
	prolog.1 - man(1) entry
	prolog.lib - a file automatically loaded by Prolog at startup
	srce - C source directory


To install prolog,
	change the path names in prolog.lib to suit your local system
	cd srce
	change path names in g.h and Makefile to suit
	If you are not BSD unix, remove the line:
		#define BSD
	  from the file "g.h"
	make install


If PRINC_VAR is defined in g.h then Prolog will allow unification
on principal functors of terms (see lib/family for an example).
This is added at only marginal loss of speed, but itis very convenient
in some applications. If you want to stick to a standard Prolog
system, remove this definition.

Other user definable globals are PROFILING, DFLT_ED, DFLT_SHELL, HZ and
MEM_AVAIL.

If PROFILING is defined you will be able to profile your prolog program.
ie you will be able to find out among other things how much time is spent
inside each predicate.  For a full description see the help directory under
profiling. DFLT_ED is the default editor and DFLT_SHELL is the default shell
used when the built in predicate "sh" is called. HZ is your line frequency in
cycles per second. MEM_AVAIL controls how large the chunks are that the
memory management routines grab.  Use 1 if main memory is limited ( < 400 K ).
use 2 otherwise. If your not sure, use 1.

The link command in srce/Makefile contains a -n flag.
If you have a PDP-11 with separate I & D spaces change
this is -i.

WARNING (Non-Bell Unix and PDP-11 systems):
There may be some differences between our system
and yours.

To guard against this, there are '#ifdef BSD' statements
You may wish to remove, or redefine these statements.

Some Berkeley distributions may also have a bug in "ungetc(c)".
This is supposed to return c, but some systems return 0 instead.
A copy of ungetc.c has been included which does the right thing.
This is included in the file "lex.c". If your system
does the right thing, you may wish to remove this #include.
